		    README for Omikuji version 0.0
			   16 February 2012

	       Copyright © 2012 Jason J. A. Stephenson
			  <jason@sigio.com>

Omikuji is meant as a replacement for the fortune and strfile
programs.  Omikuji consists of two programs: omikuji and omifile.

Omifile parses a delimited text file, the same format used by the
traditional strfile and fortune, and produces a binary file.  This
binary file is composed of a header, two indexes, and the textual
entries from the input file.  The header includes a single byte
version field so up to 256 variations of the file format can be
created (if necessary).  The first releases of omikuji support the
zeroth version of the file.  (Major versions of omikuji will be
incremented as new file formats are created.)  For more information on
the file formats supported by omikuji and omifile, see the
accompanying file Format.rtf.

Omikuji reads the file output by omifile and uses the information in
the header and indexes to lookup and display a "fortune."

This distribution of omikuji comes with a Makefile.  The Makefile
requires GNU Make.  All that you need do to install omikuji and
omifile is to type "make" in the main directory.  This will produce
two executable binaries: omikuji and omifile.  Simply copy these files
to some directory in your execution PATH.  (If you haven't already, it
is a good idea to create your own bin subdirectory under your home
directory where you can put custom programs that no one else on your
system needs.)

Omikuji currently depends on Glib-2.0.  The binaries will not build
unless Glib-2.0 is installed.  The Makefile uses pkg-config to find
Glib-2.0.  If you have installed Glib-2.0 from a package or port, then
it should be automatically detected.  If not, then you will likely
need to install pkg-config as well.

There are rudimentary man pages in the man subdirectory.  You can
install them somewhere into your MANPATH or just read them in place.
The following commands will allow you to read them on screen:

    groff -mman -Tascii omifile.1 | less
    groff -mman -Tascii omikuji.6 | less

Omikuji is distributed under the terms of the GNU General Public
License version 3, or later.  Details can be found in the file COPYING
that should accompany this distribution.
